docs/user-guide/basic-usage.md, before:

# Basic Usage

OverKeys runs in the system tray to provide quick access to its features without cluttering your desktop.

## Accessing the Tray Icon

The OverKeys icon appears in the Windows system tray (notification area) after launching the application.

## Tray Icon Actions

### Left-Click

- **Single Left-Click**: Toggles the visibility of the keyboard
  - If the keyboard is visible, clicking will hide it
  - If the keyboard is hidden, clicking will show it

### Right-Click

Right-clicking the tray icon opens a context menu with the following options:

- **Move**: Toggles mouse interaction with the keyboard overlay
  - When enabled, you can move the keyboard around the screen. Auto Hide will be temporarily disabled
- **Auto Hide**: Toggles automatic hiding of the keyboard after a period of inactivity
- **Reset Position**: Returns the keyboard to its default position at the bottom center of the screen
- **Preferences**: Opens the preferences window where you can customize OverKeys
- **Exit**: Closes the OverKeys application

## Keyboard Shortcuts

By default, OverKeys comes with the following keyboard shortcuts:

- **Ctrl+Alt+Q**: Toggles the visibility of the keyboard
- **Ctrl+Alt+W**: Toggles Auto Hide mode

These shortcuts can be customized in the Preferences window.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for Learning Mode

docs/user-guide/basic-usage.md, after:

# Basic Usage

OverKeys runs in the system tray to provide quick access to its features without cluttering your desktop.

## Accessing the Tray Icon

The OverKeys icon appears in the Windows system tray (notification area) after launching the application.

## Tray Icon Actions

### Left-Click

- **Single Left-Click**: Toggles the visibility of the keyboard
  - If the keyboard is visible, clicking will hide it
  - If the keyboard is hidden, clicking will show it

### Right-Click

Right-clicking the tray icon opens a context menu with the following options:

- **Move**: Toggles mouse interaction with the keyboard overlay
  - When enabled, you can move the keyboard around the screen. Auto Hide will be temporarily disabled
- **Auto Hide**: Toggles automatic hiding of the keyboard after a period of inactivity
- **Reset Position**: Returns the keyboard to its default position at the bottom center of the screen
- **Preferences**: Opens the preferences window where you can customize OverKeys
- **Exit**: Closes the OverKeys application

## Keyboard Shortcuts

By default, OverKeys comes with the following keyboard shortcuts:

- **Ctrl+Alt+Q**: Toggles the visibility of the keyboard
- **Ctrl+Alt+W**: Toggles Auto Hide mode
- **Ctrl+Alt+E**: Toggles Move mode for repositioning the keyboard
- **Ctrl+Alt+R**: Opens the Preferences window

These shortcuts can be customized in the Preferences window.
